README.md, before:

# oidc-ssl-iframe-integration

Secure, standards-compliant iframe integration using Apache as an SSL terminator and OAuth2/OIDC enforcement point.

## Overview
This project explores how a customer-facing "portal" can expose a third-party "partner" application inside an iframe while keeping every hop protected by Keycloak-issued tokens. The stack runs entirely via containers so the same topology can be reproduced locally and in CI. Angular (via `angular-keycloak`) authenticates the initial end user, while Apache enforces OIDC for the proxied partner routes and handles SSL termination.

## Containerized Architecture
- **Keycloak** – identity provider, realms/clients for both the portal SPA and the partner site, stores demo users/roles.
- **Apache Gateway** – terminates TLS, serves static callbacks (e.g., `oidc_popup_callback.html`), proxies `/` → portal and `/partner/*` → partner app, enforces OAuth2 for partner traffic via `mod_auth_openidc`.
- **Portal (SPA)** – Angular-based UI, registered as an OIDC public client; loads the partner iframe and exchanges user state with Apache through HTTPS calls.
- **Partner App/Site** – Flask-based upstream service framed inside the portal; trusts Apache for authentication and authorization decisions.

### Topology Diagram
```mermaid
graph LR
    Browser((User Browser)) -- HTTPS --> Apache[Apache SSL & OIDC Proxy]
    Apache -- / --> Portal[Angular Portal]
    Apache -- /partner/* --> Partner[Partner App]
    Portal -- iframe src=/partner/... --> Apache
    Apache -- OIDC RP --> Keycloak[(Keycloak IdP)]
    Portal -- PKCE / angular-keycloak --> Keycloak
```

## Request & Authentication Flow
1. User hits `https://portal.localhost/` and Angular bootstraps with `angular-keycloak`, performing an authorization code + PKCE flow directly against Keycloak.
2. The authenticated UI renders an iframe whose `src` resides under `/partner/*`; Apache intercepts that path, triggers `mod_auth_openidc`, and redirects the browser to Keycloak for a second OAuth2 code flow tied to the partner client.
3. After Keycloak redirects back to Apache (via `/oidc_popup_callback.html` for silent refresh/popups), Apache validates the token set and injects headers/cookies before proxying the request to the partner container over the internal network.
4. Subsequent iframe interactions reuse the established Apache session until expiration, and both portal calls and partner calls remain TLS-protected end-to-end.

### Sequence Diagram
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant B as Browser
    participant P as Portal SPA
    participant A as Apache Proxy
    participant K as Keycloak
    participant X as Partner App

    B->>P: Load portal (angular-keycloak init)
    P->>K: OIDC auth (code + PKCE)
    K-->>P: Tokens stored in SPA
    P->>B: Render iframe pointing to /partner
    B->>A: GET /partner/resource
    A->>K: OIDC auth for partner client
    K-->>A: Tokens (id/access)
    A->>X: Forward request with headers
    X-->>A: Response
    A-->>B: Iframe content
```

## Keycloak Clients
- **Portal Client** – public client with redirect URIs for the SPA, uses `angular-keycloak` for silent refresh. Stores user session info and drives the UI.
- **Partner Client** – confidential client for Apache, uses `mod_auth_openidc` client credentials, and has the callback set to `/oidc_popup_callback.html` (served statically by Apache).

## Apache Responsibilities
- Provide HTTPS certificates (self-signed for dev) and terminate TLS for all inbound requests.
- Proxy `/` to the portal container and `/partner/*` to the partner container with sticky sessions disabled to encourage idempotency.
- Serve `oidc_popup_callback.html` and related assets from a static directory.
- Enforce OAuth2 on partner paths, injecting user info headers (e.g., `X-User-Email`) before forwarding downstream.

## Configuration Artifacts
- `infra/keycloak/realm-export.json` – realm export describing the `portal-spa` and `partner-proxy` clients plus demo users/roles.
- `infra/keycloak/keycloak.conf` – Keycloak Quarkus HTTPS/hostname config pointing to mounted certificates.
- `infra/portal/app/src/assets/keycloak.json` – Angular `KeycloakConfig` payload consumed by `keycloak-angular` during bootstrap.
- `infra/apache/conf.d/ssl.conf` & `infra/apache/conf.d/oidc.conf` – virtual host proxying logic plus `mod_auth_openidc` directives for `/partner/*`.
- `infra/apache/html/oidc_popup_callback.html` – popup callback served by Apache for the partner OAuth2 flow.
- `infra/certs/README.md` – instructions to mint the shared dev certificate authority and per-service certs (ignored by git).
- `infra/partner/app` – Flask backend exposed through Apache; surfaces forwarded identity headers via `GET /claims`.

## Running with Docker Compose
1. Generate the TLS assets described in `infra/certs/README.md` (Apache expects `portal-dev.key|crt`, Keycloak expects `keycloak-dev.key|crt`, and both reuse the CA + trust-store files).
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the Keycloak admin credentials plus the partner proxy secret and crypto passphrase.
3. Import `infra/certs/portal-dev-ca.crt` into your OS/browser trust store (or accept the warning). The `.localhost` suffix resolves to `127.0.0.1` automatically on modern systems, so no manual hosts entries are required.
4. Launch the stack: `docker compose up --build`. Keycloak becomes available at `https://keycloak.localhost:8443`, while Apache listens on `https://portal.localhost` and proxies traffic to the portal + partner containers. Visit `https://portal.localhost` to view the Angular portal stub and `https://portal.localhost/partner/claims` to hit the partner API behind the OIDC-protected route.

The compose file lives at the repository root and wires the following services:
- `keycloak` (imports `infra/keycloak/realm-export.json` automatically on startup)
- `portal` (Angular app built from `infra/portal/app`, served via Nginx, bootstrapping Keycloak on load)
- `partner` (Flask backend listening on port 8080, echoing identity headers)
- `apache-gateway` (builds from `infra/apache`, loads the TLS material from `infra/certs`, and enforces OIDC for `/partner/*`).

## Smoke Tests
After the stack is up (and the CA is trusted locally), run `./scripts/smoke.sh`. The script hits `https://portal.localhost/` expecting an HTTP 200 from the Angular frontend and then calls `https://portal.localhost/partner/`, asserting that Apache returns a 302 redirect to Keycloak. Set `VERIFY_TLS=true` to enforce certificate validation or override the host with `BASE_URL`.

## Partner Backend
The partner container runs a lightweight Flask service (see `infra/partner/app`) that:
- renders an informational landing page describing which headers Apache injects;
- exposes `GET /claims`, which echoes the received identity headers for easy debugging;
- provides `/healthz` for smoke tests.

This keeps the iframe target realistic enough to validate the OIDC enforcement layer while remaining easy to extend with more routes.

## Portal Frontend
The portal service is an Angular application (`infra/portal/app`) that leverages `keycloak-angular` to enforce an immediate login (`onLoad: 'login-required'`). After bootstrap it fetches the user profile, renders ID-token claims, and embeds the `/partner/` iframe so contributors can validate cross-origin behavior without wiring a full production UI yet. The Docker image performs a multi-stage build (Node → Nginx) so no Node runtime ships in production containers.

## Next Steps
- Integrate the smoke script into CI so every change validates TLS routing and Keycloak imports automatically.
- Add end-to-end tests (e.g., Cypress) that perform a full login, load the iframe, and assert headers reach the partner backend.

Commit message:

Add bootstrap script for TLS and env setup

README.md, after:

# oidc-ssl-iframe-integration

Secure, standards-compliant iframe integration using Apache as an SSL terminator and OAuth2/OIDC enforcement point.

## Overview
This project explores how a customer-facing "portal" can expose a third-party "partner" application inside an iframe while keeping every hop protected by Keycloak-issued tokens. The stack runs entirely via containers so the same topology can be reproduced locally and in CI. Angular (via `angular-keycloak`) authenticates the initial end user, while Apache enforces OIDC for the proxied partner routes and handles SSL termination.

## Containerized Architecture
- **Keycloak** – identity provider, realms/clients for both the portal SPA and the partner site, stores demo users/roles.
- **Apache Gateway** – terminates TLS, serves static callbacks (e.g., `oidc_popup_callback.html`), proxies `/` → portal and `/partner/*` → partner app, enforces OAuth2 for partner traffic via `mod_auth_openidc`.
- **Portal (SPA)** – Angular-based UI, registered as an OIDC public client; loads the partner iframe and exchanges user state with Apache through HTTPS calls.
- **Partner App/Site** – Flask-based upstream service framed inside the portal; trusts Apache for authentication and authorization decisions.

### Topology Diagram
```mermaid
graph LR
    Browser((User Browser)) -- HTTPS --> Apache[Apache SSL & OIDC Proxy]
    Apache -- / --> Portal[Angular Portal]
    Apache -- /partner/* --> Partner[Partner App]
    Portal -- iframe src=/partner/... --> Apache
    Apache -- OIDC RP --> Keycloak[(Keycloak IdP)]
    Portal -- PKCE / angular-keycloak --> Keycloak
```

## Request & Authentication Flow
1. User hits `https://portal.localhost/` and Angular bootstraps with `angular-keycloak`, performing an authorization code + PKCE flow directly against Keycloak.
2. The authenticated UI renders an iframe whose `src` resides under `/partner/*`; Apache intercepts that path, triggers `mod_auth_openidc`, and redirects the browser to Keycloak for a second OAuth2 code flow tied to the partner client.
3. After Keycloak redirects back to Apache (via `/oidc_popup_callback.html` for silent refresh/popups), Apache validates the token set and injects headers/cookies before proxying the request to the partner container over the internal network.
4. Subsequent iframe interactions reuse the established Apache session until expiration, and both portal calls and partner calls remain TLS-protected end-to-end.

### Sequence Diagram
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant B as Browser
    participant P as Portal SPA
    participant A as Apache Proxy
    participant K as Keycloak
    participant X as Partner App

    B->>P: Load portal (angular-keycloak init)
    P->>K: OIDC auth (code + PKCE)
    K-->>P: Tokens stored in SPA
    P->>B: Render iframe pointing to /partner
    B->>A: GET /partner/resource
    A->>K: OIDC auth for partner client
    K-->>A: Tokens (id/access)
    A->>X: Forward request with headers
    X-->>A: Response
    A-->>B: Iframe content
```

## Keycloak Clients
- **Portal Client** – public client with redirect URIs for the SPA, uses `angular-keycloak` for silent refresh. Stores user session info and drives the UI.
- **Partner Client** – confidential client for Apache, uses `mod_auth_openidc` client credentials, and has the callback set to `/oidc_popup_callback.html` (served statically by Apache).

## Apache Responsibilities
- Provide HTTPS certificates (self-signed for dev) and terminate TLS for all inbound requests.
- Proxy `/` to the portal container and `/partner/*` to the partner container with sticky sessions disabled to encourage idempotency.
- Serve `oidc_popup_callback.html` and related assets from a static directory.
- Enforce OAuth2 on partner paths, injecting user info headers (e.g., `X-User-Email`) before forwarding downstream.

## Configuration Artifacts
- `infra/keycloak/realm-export.json` – realm export describing the `portal-spa` and `partner-proxy` clients plus demo users/roles.
- `infra/keycloak/keycloak.conf` – Keycloak Quarkus HTTPS/hostname config pointing to mounted certificates.
- `infra/portal/app/src/assets/keycloak.json` – Angular `KeycloakConfig` payload consumed by `keycloak-angular` during bootstrap.
- `infra/apache/conf.d/ssl.conf` & `infra/apache/conf.d/oidc.conf` – virtual host proxying logic plus `mod_auth_openidc` directives for `/partner/*`.
- `infra/apache/html/oidc_popup_callback.html` – popup callback served by Apache for the partner OAuth2 flow.
- `infra/certs/README.md` – instructions to mint the shared dev certificate authority and per-service certs (ignored by git).
- `infra/partner/app` – Flask backend exposed through Apache; surfaces forwarded identity headers via `GET /claims`.

## Running with Docker Compose
1. Run `./scripts/bootstrap.sh` (requires `openssl` + `keytool`). It provisions the `.env` file, generates the CA + service certificates inside `infra/certs/`, and builds the Keycloak truststore used during startup.
2. Optionally tweak `.env` if you need different admin credentials or proxy secrets.
3. Import `infra/certs/portal-dev-ca.crt` into your OS/browser trust store (or accept the warning). The `.localhost` suffix resolves to `127.0.0.1` automatically on modern systems, so no manual hosts entries are required.
4. Launch the stack: `docker compose up --build`. Keycloak becomes available at `https://keycloak.localhost:8443`, while Apache listens on `https://portal.localhost` and proxies traffic to the portal + partner containers. Visit `https://portal.localhost` to view the Angular portal stub and `https://portal.localhost/partner/claims` to hit the partner API behind the OIDC-protected route.

The compose file lives at the repository root and wires the following services:
- `keycloak` (imports `infra/keycloak/realm-export.json` automatically on startup)
- `portal` (Angular app built from `infra/portal/app`, served via Nginx, bootstrapping Keycloak on load)
- `partner` (Flask backend listening on port 8080, echoing identity headers)
- `apache-gateway` (builds from `infra/apache`, loads the TLS material from `infra/certs`, and enforces OIDC for `/partner/*`).

## Smoke Tests
After the stack is up (and the CA is trusted locally), run `./scripts/smoke.sh`. The script hits `https://portal.localhost/` expecting an HTTP 200 from the Angular frontend and then calls `https://portal.localhost/partner/`, asserting that Apache returns a 302 redirect to Keycloak. Set `VERIFY_TLS=true` to enforce certificate validation or override the host with `BASE_URL`.

## Partner Backend
The partner container runs a lightweight Flask service (see `infra/partner/app`) that:
- renders an informational landing page describing which headers Apache injects;
- exposes `GET /claims`, which echoes the received identity headers for easy debugging;
- provides `/healthz` for smoke tests.

This keeps the iframe target realistic enough to validate the OIDC enforcement layer while remaining easy to extend with more routes.

## Portal Frontend
The portal service is an Angular application (`infra/portal/app`) that leverages `keycloak-angular` to enforce an immediate login (`onLoad: 'login-required'`). After bootstrap it fetches the user profile, renders ID-token claims, and embeds the `/partner/` iframe so contributors can validate cross-origin behavior without wiring a full production UI yet. The Docker image performs a multi-stage build (Node → Nginx) so no Node runtime ships in production containers.

## Next Steps
- Integrate the smoke script into CI so every change validates TLS routing and Keycloak imports automatically.
- Add end-to-end tests (e.g., Cypress) that perform a full login, load the iframe, and assert headers reach the partner backend.
